>> Jason Pamental: This
is another example.
This is one that I gave you a link to and
it's also in this project.
This is the one,
the page I designed for monotype.
And this one is playing around with
a single font, regular italic,
and a weight range that
goes from 100 to 900.
>> Jason Pamental: And I'm using
almost all of those throughout this.
So what I wanted to point out
here is that going from that 100
weight all the way to 900,
by also then playing with the font size,
you can still make something very
readable by just making it really big.
So you can really create
a lot of strong variation and
kind of visual dynamics just by
varying the weight and the size.
That scale change really can vary
the design and the feeling of it.
And when you see this in code, you'll see
that it actually does scale really nicely
down onto the small screen as well.
So in this design I was working through,
they've got some ligatures here and
kerning.
We've got a lot of different weights.
We've a got little different
techniques in here,
where I've got the large initial capital.
The first line of the paragraph
is slightly heavier, so
it's slightly bolder
than the text around it.
We have a big pull quote down here
that's set in italics, much larger and
much lighter.
It also does things on the screen.
When it gets smaller, it makes that really
lightweight text a little bit heavier,
because as that scales down in font size,
it actually gets a little bit
harder to read at that 100 weight.
But I'm able to bump it to just 150 or
175 rather than having to
go up a substantial weight.
And visually it still looks
pretty much the same,
still has that same kind of feeling.
So I've tried to layer in as many
different typographic techniques
as I can here just to sort of show
how much we can do in pixels,
similar to the kinds of things
that we would do on paper.
>> Jason Pamental: So let's take a look
at some of those details in action.
I wanna show you again
this page with Plex.
>> Jason Pamental: This one, I've kind
of removed all of the scaling, so
you can kind of see how well or
poorly this behaves when you don't have
any of that modular scale built in.
But if I load up a page
from the next section,
this is one where I've added
the pixel values in, so
this is not using the formula.
If you take a look at
the 06-plex-styles-rwt
versus the 05-plex styles,
this one is really simple.
It just has one font size,
it doesn't change.
If we look at the one that's set
up to deal with the scaling,
you can see that there's a lot more to it.
There are breakpoints here that
are affecting the line height and
font size, and it's also dealing with
all of the inactive classes as well.
So that way, it's trying to factor in
the loading process across any device.
So when we look at that in the browser and
turn stuff on and off, it's pretty close.
And it stays pretty close even as
you get into a smaller screen,
but you can see everything's
kinda scaling down.
And you can see the negative
margin is gone here.
Whereas on a larger screen where I know
that I have the room, this actually
kinda sticks out, and creates a little
bit more of an editorial effect.
And that's all using CSS shape-outside,
which is a really nifty little property.
And just in the CSS I define
a polygon around the glass, so
that way the text will wrap around it.
And it gives it a little bit more of
an interesting kind of polished look,
more like you'd see in a magazine.
>> Jason Pamental: So those two files
will give you a sense of going from,
the fonts are being loaded well,
but we're not really doing
anything about scaling them.
And then when we do want to scale them,
we add in those media queries.
We preserve the fallback styling so
that stuff comes along with it, and
the same thing is happening
here when you get into the h1.
You see a few different breakpoints
where we're changing font-size,
max-width, and line-height,
and h2s as well.
>> Jason Pamental: So that's using
kind of the new old school way.
And if we wanna look at sort
of the newer new school,
we can take a look at another one of
the pages in that part six folder.
So this is the one that we've
been seeing lots of pictures of.
This is using Amstelvar.
And it's got all of the scaling tricks and
techniques in there so
everything is animating and
changing with optical size.
You can see a couple things missing
out here, where you are getting some
of those collisions here
between those letter forms.
So that's some stuff that we can improve.
>> Jason Pamental: We're kinda getting
ahead of ourselves a little bit though.
And then the other one that's in this
folder that you can take a look at.
Now we can see this working
in the browser, and
see how this moves and
scales as things get smaller.
And I set this up to do things
a little bit differently, and
kind of lighten up this text and
just let it flow behind.